---
layout: post
tags: weeks-of-my-life
title: "Week 1606"
---
Still waiting for Covid-19 to end. 

- I’ve been eating vegetarian since the beginning of the month. The initial adjustment was a little painful but now it doesn’t feel difficult anymore. When I go to Tesco, I have to remember not to buy any meat out of habit but I’ve yet to have any cravings for it. I’ll probably go back to eating meat eventually, but I’m surprised how easy this diet is to follow. I started this experiment because I wanted to reduce my meat consumption from at least daily down to something like twice a week. Since I was also curious what being vegetarian would feel like, I decided to go cold turkey and readjust at a later date.
- The UK is in the middle of a heatwave right now. I live under the roof and it gets unbearably hot during the day. This makes my computers constantly throttle. It didn’t help that I had built a little platform for my US keyboard that I put on top of my built in laptop keyboard, nicely trapping all the heat inside. But even without this, once it gets hot, things slow down.
- Before and after work, I’ve been working on a new version of Primlo. It’s close to done at this point, the only main feature left now is subscription management. I’m finishing up iOS right now before moving on to Android. The iOS/iTunes subscription API has to be one of the worst APIs I’ve ever had the displeasure of using. Anyway, I wrote all this code before so it’s mostly copying over and refactoring where necessary.
- That reminds me, I got Martin Fowler’s [UML distilled](https://martinfowler.com/books/uml.html) yesterday because I had to draw some sequence diagrams at work and wanted to read a bit more about them. Good thing 24 year old Jan will never have to find out that I’m reading books like that…